Inarizaki High School is switching out players.
Taking the place of Ojiro Aran, number four, is the captain, Kita Shinsuke, number one.
He's a player we didn't get to see in the videos.
Yeah.
I wanted to put a little more pressure on Ojiro, but whatever.
Listen, guys.
You don't have to be that guarded.
I'm just a substitute.
I'm here to tide them over.
So you don't need to be scared of me.
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu
Haikyuu !
!
Haikyuu
We're not gonna quit now, we're not stopping here, we're not giving up
We're in the direst of straits We understand all that
But we're not quitting now, we're not stopping, we're not giving up
'Cause if we give up now It'll all be over
If we don't step up to the challenge, we'll never get a taste
Of the most exhilarating time of our lives
There's always been something we've lacked, something missing
Haven't you also hungered for it?
So we'll be coming at them fair and square
We're gonna play out this reality, all the sweet and all the sour
We wanna come straight at you with the greatest of finesse
We're torn toward that delight because that seems like the most fun
So there's no way we're giving up now
Not until we've tasted it all and are left grinning
So let's start smiling
Episode Twenty: Leader Episode Twenty: Leader
Episode Twenty: Leader Someone's always watching, Shin.
The gods are everywhere.
So someone's always watching.
Gin!
Why'd you force that spike earlier?
I-It felt like the match was going in Karasuno's favor, so I tried to stop it.
And that's supposed to happen by you getting blocked?
Everyone's so on edge as soon as Shinsuke enters the court.
Well, his sound arguments are like a punch to the gut.
Give us a good serve!
Right between...
Got it!
Daichi!
Looks like he tried to get them to set from the back row.
Sorry, it's short!
Azumane!
Yes!
Akagi!
Go for it!
I hate this.
Gin!
Hell yeah!
We don't need the memories We don't need the memories
Inarizaki scores back-to-back points!
Inarizaki Karasuno That one's gonna hurt Karasuno!
I have a bad feeling about this.
They got back-to-back points,
but now, it somehow feels like plays the guys could've made earlier suddenly aren't possible.
Guys like Shinsuke show up every once in a while.
They're definitely not the star, but their presence takes over the whole court.
He's had that kind of presence ever since junior high.
Their number four won't hit a straight spike.
Right!
He never did anything unnecessary and his words were precise.
His plays needed a bit of work, but they were thorough.
And now,
Shinsuke is overflowing with confidence.
Not confidence that says that he's better than others.
But confidence that ensures that he won't mess up.
How does Kita just pop onto the court and play flawlessly like that?
He's got way more experience than you.
Apparently, Kita never played in a match until his third year.
Huh? Seriously?
But he totally acts like he's a seasoned veteran.
Which means even if he played in junior high, he didn't have much of a chance to play in high school.
Actually, not only was he not on the starting lineup in junior high, they never even gave him a uniform.
What?
I don't understand why anyone ever gets nervous.
What are you, some kind of robot?
I mean, I've been on to you, but...
You only get nervous because you try to be more powerful than you usually are, right?
I mean, when you do day-to-day things like eat or take a shit, you don't get nervous.
That should apply to volleyball too.
If it's something you can do during practice, there's no reason to get nervous.
Inarizaki Karasuno
Get out there!
Oh, there he is. Karasuno's first-year relief server.
He seems pretty good at scoring.
That felt good!
Shinsuke's abilities could be considered better than average.
It's not like he's physically or technically impressive, or that he stands out in any way.
But anything he can do during practice, he can also absolutely pull off in matches.
The best praise you could give Shinsuke is to not be surprised.
What, Atsumu? Did you catch a cold?
Shouldn't you be resting?
This is nothing!
I'll get worse if I don't play volleyball!
That's the spirit!
Love of volleyball conquers all!
Go home.
Don't compliment him when he's obviously not taking care of himself.
Why am I in trouble?
Ice cold.
Now I'm gonna catch a cold.
Boys' Volleyball Team What... the hell?!
Couldn't he be nicer about it?!
m 763.5 618 l 822 931.5 1282.5 925.5 1326 861 1224 628.5 960 612
Atsumu, Make sure you eat and sleep ...........................................................-Kita
You're gonna make me cry!
Pickled plums?!
You gotta do it every day.
Without fail.
Taking care of yourself.
Cleaning, tidying up.
Thank you for the food.
Your greetings.
Volleyball.
Don't worry about it.
That's Shinsuke's ritual.
The gods are everywhere.
That's what Grandma would always tell me,
but at some point, I stopped caring.
It's not like I'm doing this for the gods.
Repetition, being methodical, and being thorough just feels nice.
Someone's always watching.
Number one, Kita!
Yes, sir.
Next up, number two, Omimi!
I figured Kita was basically a robot.
Yeah.
When an adult says, "The process matters more than the results," kids aren't really gonna understand.
Results are everything!
But I totally agree with the adults.
I'm basically built from my daily routine, and the results are nothing more than a byproduct.
It's not like I'm gonna make a living playing volleyball.
But I wonder if this is a result too.
Who cares about the small stuff?!
You don't need a reason for emotions!
If you're happy, you're happy!
What're you laughing for?!
Yeah, you're right.
I don't need any applause.
I'm just going to do what I need to do.
If Aran, Rintarou, or Atsumu throw our enemies into despair...
then Shinsuke's role is to prolong that despair.
Inarizaki Karasuno
And Inarizaki High School is at set point!
Don't give up!
You're only eight points behind!
They're probably going to lose this set.
What matters is how they lose.
The final set is going to be affected by how the end of the second set plays out.
Concentrate! Let's break their streak!
Right!
Please end on a positive note!
Let's stop 'em here!
Good. Looks like we've got this set.
But you never know.
Last year, the tables turned on us even though we were six points ahead.
They could go for a new record.
What?!
The first- and second-years are always moody.
Seriously...
It's not like he ever yells or hits anyone, but the pressure he puts on everyone else is so intense.
It doesn't matter what it is. This guy just never gives.
Damn it, he's already here.
Morning practice He's always there first
I wonder if there's a shortcut somewhere...
Morning practice Of course he goes all-out
What's a failing grade?
Academics His grades are always at the top of his class
I seriously wish I could catch him with his guard down.
I know.
His grades are always at the top of his class
Academics
For example, catching him using baby talk with a pet.
His grades are always at the top of his class
Academics
*His imagination *His imagination
That's a good wittle boy!
I don't put Kita in just to strengthen our defense.
Whenever one team has a big lead, the second-years either panic or let their guard down.
They should have authority, but they're mentally weak.
Kita's the only one who can whip them into shape.
Atsumu is aggressive and hates losing, which can be a disadvantage at times.
Despite the fact that Osamu seems calmer than Atsumu, they still share the same DNA.
Gin feels responsible and is passionate, which causes him to rush.
When we're ahead or it looks like we're going to win, Suna starts slacking.
I'm watching all of you.
Their number five turned things around at the end of the first set.
Give us a good serve!
We don't need the memories We don't need the memories
In that case, I'll use my serves...
to drag him back down!
Ryuu!
They're not holding back despite their lead!
Yes!
Go for it!
Here it comes!
Just try and stop me!
We don't need the memories We don't need the memories
Inarizaki Karasuno
A powerful serve followed by a powerful fast attack allows Inarizaki High School to instantly take the second set!
Karasuno High School is at a loss!
Haikyuu!!
We don't need the memories
The fast attacks from Inarizaki's number ten just keep coming!
Not to mention, Karasuno's blockers seem like they're on top of things, but their defense is full of holes.
They keep getting around the same guy.
Come after me already.
All right! Let's change gears!
Right!
I've never seen Nishinoya be quiet off the court.
I want to believe it's because he's concentrating, but I don't think that's it.
You're doing that thing you do when you mess up in practice, Nishinoya.
Get a grip!
You practiced more than enough!
You'll be fine.
Yeah.
Nishinoya.
You can do it.
Actually, I can't guarantee that.
That serve is so intense that even you're having trouble getting it.
That's Miya Atsumu's serve, and that's how it is.
Also, I suck at cheering people up.
I have my hands full dealing with myself.
Really?
But I can also speak for myself.
Even if we can't pull off an A-pass,
I'll still finish it off!
Yeah, I don't really care about the A-pass either, but could you get the ball higher?
Really?
You know... we really need to talk about your timing.
Huh? What's your problem?
Well said, Asahi!
I wanted to say something too!
Hyougo Inarizaki Hyougo Inarizaki Atsumu,
seeing Karasuno's setter serve earlier has made you want to do a spike serve, hasn't it?
"Man, it's so much cooler just blasting a spike serve.
I'm getting pretty sick of jump floaters too."
How does he know that?
Your jump floaters are scoring right now.
You've been trying to crush their libero, so see it all the way through.
Got it!
Inarizaki Karasuno
The ultimate challengers, Inarizaki.
All right, let's go!
Yeah!
The unknown veterans, Karasuno.
Which team will reach the summit first?
The fateful third set starts off with Miya Atsumu's serve.
We don't need the memories We don't need the memories
Out!
Yeah!
Just how many is he going to get today?!
The big-time server, Miya Atsumu!
We don't need the memories We don't need the memories
He's starting off the set with a service ace!
Inarizaki Karasuno I totally thought it was out too.
Atsumu's pretty sharp today.
He might actually get a spike serve over.
Yeah.
Maybe the chances of him getting either one over won't change that much.
But you just told him to do jump floaters.
Both of his serves are powerful.
But if he switches over to a spike serve and the other team manages to get it,
he'll end up thinking that he should've gone with the jump float serve.
But if they got a jump floater that looked good,
knowing Atsumu's personality, he'd feel even more competitive and motivated.
I think it's better for Atsumu's motivation if he gets those jump floaters over.
The scary part is, he's always right about this stuff.
My feet feel like they're nailed to the floor.
I can tell that my response is slower than usual.
I see.
I'm actually scared right now.
Left!
Azumane!
Yes!
Nice spike!
Wow, Asahi's actually being super dependable.
It's all right for Nishinoya to have his hands full every once in a while.
Karasuno switched up their rotation.
Suguru, feel free to share your expert commentary.
Huh? Oh, uh... m 604.5 49.5 l 799.5 51 798 123 600 123
Server m -94.5 -33 l 90 -34.5 90 40.5 -96 43.5
Net Back Row Front Row
If there's one unique rule about volleyball,
I'd say it's the player rotation.
That's where, whenever someone serves,
everyone rotates one position clockwise.
As for the positions, they decide that before each set starts and submit it.
Rotation sheet Rotation sheet Set:
Set:
Team Name:
Karasuno High School Karasuno High School
m 604.5 49.5 l 799.5 51 798 123 600 123
Server m -118.5 -34.5 l 117 -37.5 115.5 36 -117 40.5
Setter m -94.5 -33 l 90 -34.5 90 40.5 -96 43.5
Net Back Row Front Row
For example, a common rotation is for the setter to start off in the back row.
That way, there'll be three attackers up front right off the bat.
Front Row
Also, it's pretty common to start off with the best server.
For Inarizaki, their setter is also their most powerful server, so both of these rotations apply.
m -118.5 -34.5 l 117 -37.5 115.5 36 -117 40.5
Setter m 604.5 49.5 l 799.5 51 798 123 600 123
Server
m -118.5 -34.5 l 117 -37.5 115.5 36 -117 40.5
Setter m 604.5 49.5 l 799.5 51 798 123 600 123
Server
m -118.5 -34.5 l 117 -37.5 115.5 36 -117 40.5
Setter m 604.5 49.5 l 799.5 51 798 123 600 123
Server
m -118.5 -34.5 l 117 -37.5 115.5 36 -117 40.5
Setter m 604.5 49.5 l 799.5 51 798 123 600 123
Server
This is probably the rotation that Inarizaki always starts with,
and it's like they're trying to say, "We don't care what the other team looks like! This is our starting rotation!"
On the other hand, Karasuno tends to dive in headfirst, but I think they use a lot of trial and error.
Inarizaki seems pretty strong regardless of the rotation they use,
but whenever their number four, ten, and eleven are up front, their offensive potential is at its highest.
But Karasuno is a bit more extreme.
Especially their middle blocker.
Their tiny number ten specializes in attacking.
He's basically a scoring machine, and he can do it from anywhere on the court.
Also, he's an effective decoy.
Their number eleven with the glasses seems to be the keystone of their blocking,
so you'd want him to be up there when there are strong attackers.
Or maybe they should concentrate everything on shutting down Miya Atsumu's serves.
Yeah, but starting off with their best server is vital too.
Do they go with the setter or the samurai dude?
Yeah!
Crap! No one likes a blabbering know-it-all!
Sorry! I talked for way too long!
2nd Set Net
So the fact that Inarizaki is starting with the same rotation, but Karasuno is switching things up means...
3rd Set
that when Inarizaki tries to score, Karasuno will have different blockers?
Yes, exactly!
The matchups are different!
Every time the rotations change, we're going to see different little battles play out!
Aran!
Got it!
Karasuno manages to get the ace Ojiro to touch the ball first!
That's a quick fast attack!
I touched it!
Yes!
Why are you freaked out, Hinata?
This is why Karasuno chose this rotation.
Now, Four-eyes and the twins' fast attack will keep lining up!
m 505.5 376.5 l 648 376.5 648 430.5 505.5 430.5
Net
All right, let's switch up our rotation.
Even if we don't have Nishinoya in the middle for Miya Atsumu's serves,
he's apparently going to keep aiming for you.
Talk about stubborn.
Tsukishima, I'm going to have you go up against Miya Osamu and Suna Rintarou as much as possible.
The twins' fast attack?
Yeah. That's the most unexpected thing we've dealt with so far.
I'm counting on you, deviant fast attack killer.
Uh... sure.
Hinata's Inuoka strategy was pretty good, but unfortunately,
I'm pretty sure Tanaka's getting tired of having to try to block in the middle for Hinata over and over.
I'd like to say I'm fine, but the middle's pretty rough.
Are you jealous that I got assigned a big role, Tsukishima?
My bad. I guess I stole your big role from you.
Tsukishima never forgets payback, and he slays.
It's an art form, really.
Samu!
Aran!
The player we don't want on a roll the most is Ojiro Aran.
I want him to hit another high wall one more time.
Yes!
And he's shut down!
First-year Kageyama Tobio stopped the ace, Ojiro, all on his own!
Fly Fly Yes, yes, yes!
They've learned from the second set!
That seems like what Karasuno's back-to-back points are getting across.
Inarizaki Karasuno
Nationals always has some amazing blockers.
I can't even count how many times I've been shut down.
They come after me as though I look completely frozen in time to them,
and there are times they're in front of me before I even try to attack.
Those looming hands are basically fear itself.
And...
a block that's not scary isn't actually a block.
This guy's way scarier than Four-eyes over there.
The only thing I'm sure of is that the day will come when I finally get it
It doesn't matter if I make some mistakes along the way as long as I hold onto these feelings
In my dreams I wanted to throw off the yoke of gravity and reality
But the day in day out of bringing it all together had me grounded
The boy who acted all tough like he wasn't scared of anything
Still hasn't been torn away from the sweat of fierce competition
But he's not just hoping for miracles anymore
We can go anywhere we want to because one day our dream will come true
It was no mere coincidence that we made it this far
Every time we're forced from the stage I always wanna get right back on it
And I can hold onto that strong desire because you were there
Episode Twenty-one: Hero Episode Twenty-one: Hero
Episode Twenty-one: Hero Next time: "Hero."